ROW 1: RIS TAG:	AU	PY	T1	PB	SN	DO	UR	L1	N2	CT	CY	JO	VL	IS	SP	EP	KW								
ROW 2: TAG USE:	Author	Year	Title	Publisher	ISBN/ISSN	DOI	URL	File Link	(Notes/Abstract)	Conf. Title	City	Journal	Volume	Issue	Start Page	End Page	Keywords								
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	1995/02/25	Будущее либеральной демократии в России [Prospects for Liberal Democracy in Russia]				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/260084521_Budusee_liberalnoj_demokratii_v_Rossii_Prospects_for_Liberal_Democracy_in_Russia	FutureofLiberalDemocracyinRussia.pdf	The October 1993 events and the December 1993 elections raise a question about prospects for liberal democracy in Russia. Many liberal politicians in Russia maintained that liberal democracy gained decisive victory as a result of the October 1993 events. One can argue that fundamental changes in the value orientations of the main actors have not occurred. Authoritarian values presented by such organizations as the Russian Communist Workers Party, the Communist Party of the Russian Federation and the Liberal Democratic Party have remained strong. In the case of free elections, the authoritarian parties would receive significant weight in parliament. This happened in the December 1993 elections. The success of the Liberal Democratic Party led by an extreme antiliberal, Zhirinovsky, has confirmed the influence of authoritarianism. The Communist Party of the Russian Federation and its ally, the Agrarian Party, also have received a significant share of votes. Liberal democrats from Russia's Choice have suffered a significant defeat. Charismatic leaders currently play a significant role in Russia. The success of the Liberal Democratic Party is to a great extent due to a charismatic figure, Vladimir Zhirinovsky. He has widely used political demagogy and appeal to emotions instead of rational arguments. Presently, liberal democrats in Russia are dependent on Yeltsin's presidential status and personal charisma. Yeltsin's charisma has begun to weaken as his actions, especially in the economic sphere, have failed to bring the results which he promised. The strong dependency on personality of Yeltsin can endanger Russian liberal-democratic reforms. Liberal politicians lack charisma, and their organizations are too weak to become dominant in Russian politics in the near future. Many liberal politicians, both in Russia and in the West, continue to orient their actions toward president Yeltsin believing that democracy in Russia could be secured by a strong presidential power. However, such power can be used to destroy democracy. The 1996 presidential elections can bring a challenge to liberal reforms and democracy from authoritarian and charismatic politicians. Presently, Russian democracy rests on the balance of power between liberal democrats on the one hand and authoritarian nationalists and communists on the other. The latter can use both democratic and undemocratic means in their political struggle. In such a situation, liberal democrats face the dilemma of choosing between democratic or authoritarian reform paths. Lack of legitimacy is another problem of Russian democracy. Copying Western liberal and democratic constitutions and other laws alone could not establish the rule of law when people do not consider them as legitimate. The political conflict between the president, parliament and vice-president -- which was resolved by anti-constitutional means in October 1993 -- is an example of the weak legitimacy of the rule of law and the democratic form of government. The prospects for stable liberal and democratic order in Russia depend on liberalization and rationalization of values. In present Russia, authoritarian values are strong, and charismatic leaders are influential. The rule of law lacks legitimacy. Liberal democrats are divided and dependent on Yeltsin’s status and favor.			Obschestvennyye nauki i sovremennost’			52	56									
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2000/04/01	Divergence in Growth in Post-Communist Countries			10.1017/S0143814X00000751	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/231792748_Divergence_in_Growth_in_Post-Communist_Countries	KatchanovskiJPParticle.pdf	The paper analyzes the divergence of economic growth in post-communist countries along geographical lines. It examines the role of culture, manifested in the form of civil society, social capital, trust, religious and business ethics, and historical experience, in the economic growth. Multivariate regression, a path (structural equation) model, and sensitivity analysis are used to determine direct and indirect effects of culture, policy, corruption, war, initial economic conditions, and ethnicity on the economic growth in 28 post-communist countries in 1990–1998. The statistical analyses show that a cultural index, which reflects civil society strength, the proportion of Catholics and Protestants in the population and historical experience, has the strongest effect on growth, economic reform, macroeconomic stabilization policy and corruption.			Journal of Public Policy	20		55	81									
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2001/04/05	Social Capital and Privatization in Regions of Ukraine				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/315725475_Social_Capital_and_Privatization_in_Regions_of_Ukraine		This paper analyzes the role of different forms of social capital in privatization in regions of Ukraine. Several recent studies linked regional government performance and economic development in Italy, Germany, Poland, and other countries to social capital, which is associated with different historical experiences. In post-communist Ukraine, regional political cleavages are also often traced to historical divisions. This paper examines whether different historical experiences in two groups of regions, those which were under Russian and then Soviet rule, and those which were under Austro-Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, and Czechoslovak rule until World War II, contributed to variations in the rate and quality of privatization. This study distinguishes between quantitative and qualitative aspects of social capital and privatization in industry and agriculture in Ukrainian regions. Statistical analysis of the 1995 World Values Survey data and aggregate data are used to analyze effects of historical experience and other direct and indirect measures of social capital, such as membership in voluntary organizations, interpersonal trust, importance of family and friends, and crime and divorce rates, on privatization in Ukraine. The role of social capital in privatization is compared to the role of other factors including economic policy, industrial structure, human capital, and ethnic cleavages.																
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2005/09/01	Small Nations but Great Differences: Political Orientations and Cultures of the Crimean Tatars and the Gagauz			10.1080/09668130500199483	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/248965160_Small_Nations_but_Great_Differences_Political_Orientations_and_Cultures_of_the_Crimean_Tatars_and_the_Gagauz	Europe-AsiaArticle.pdf	This article examines differing political orientations of Crimean Tatars and the Gagauz, two main Turkic minorities in Ukraine and Moldova. Crimean Tatars in Ukraine expressed anti-Communist and anti-Russian political preferences, while the Gagauz in Moldova showed strong support for pro-Communist and pro-Russian parties and politicians. This study analyses the role of cultural factors in political attitudes and behavior of Crimean Tatars and the Gagauz and uses data from surveys, elections and referendums. The analysis shows that distinct historical experiences of Crimean Tatars and the Gagauz in the Ottoman Empire, the Russian Empire, the Soviet Union and Romania led to the emergence of distinct political cultures of these ethnic groups and affected their political behavior and attitudes in post-communist Ukraine and Moldova.			Europe Asia Studies	57		877	894									
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2006/06/01	The Orange Evolution? The Political Realignment and Regional Divisions in Ukraine				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/317267735_The_Orange_Evolution_The_Political_Realignment_and_Regional_Divisions_in_Ukraine	TheOrangeEvolutionThePoliticalRealignmentandRegionalDivisionsinUkraine.pdf	This paper analyzes changes in political parties, political leaders, and regional political orientations in Ukraine in 2002-2006. The question is whether these changes are revolutionary or evolutionary. Most previous studies describe the culmination moment of these changes during the 2004 presidential elections as a revolution (the Orange Revolution). My hypothesis is that not a revolution but a major electoral realignment occurred in the Ukrainian politics since 2002. A realignment theory refers to elections that produce significant and relatively long-term changes in dominant parties, leaders, issues and preferences of voters. This study employs comparative analysis of regional support for pro-Yushchenko parties in the 2002 and 2006 parliamentary elections and support for Viktor Yushchenko in the 2004 presidential elections. The paper uses surveys conducted by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology and the Razumkov Center in 2002-2006 to compare changes in political orientations in regions of Ukraine. This paper concludes that the changes in political leadership, regional political orientation, and political parties are best described as an evolutionary electoral realignment and not as a revolution.																
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2006/11/01	Regional Political Divisions in Ukraine in 1991–2006			10.1080/00905990600952939	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/233063606_Regional_Political_Divisions_in_Ukraine_in_1991-2006	Nationalitiespapers2006.pdf	This article examines determinants of persistent regional political cleavages in post-Communist Ukraine. The question is how significant the role of culture is compared to ethnic, economic, and religious factors in the regional divisions. This study employs correlation, factor, and regression analyses of regional support for the Communist/pro-Russian parties and presidential candidates and pro-nationalist/pro-independence parties and candidates in all national elections held from 1991 to 2006, the vote for the preservation of the Soviet Union in the March 1991 referendum, and the vote for the independence of Ukraine in the December 1991 referendum. This study shows that the pattern of these regional differences remained relatively stable from 1991 to 2006. Historical experience has a major effect on regional electoral behavior in post-Communist Ukraine. The legacy of Austro-Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, and Czechoslovak rule is positively associated with the pro-nationalist and pro-independence vote; the same historical legacy has a negative effect on support for pro-Communist and pro-Russian parties and presidential candidates and on the vote for the preservation of the Soviet Union.			Nationalities Papers	34		507	532									
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2008/10/01	The Orange Evolution? The "Orange Revolution" and Political Changes in Ukraine			10.2747/1060-586X.24.4.351	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/228960001_The_Orange_Evolution_The_Orange_Revolution_and_Political_Changes_in_Ukraine	The_Orange_Evolution_The_Orange_Revolution_and_Pol.pdf	Have there been changes in political institutions, parties, leaders, and regional political orientations in Ukraine after the "Orange Revolution"? If so, are the changes revolutionary or evolutionary? Most previous studies refer to the 2004 presidential elections and mass protest actions as a revolution. To test this claim, this article analyzes political changes in Ukraine. Survey data are used to compare changes in pro-Russian and pro-Western orientation, support for major parties in the 2002, 2006, and 2007 parliamentary elections, and support for leading presidential candidates since the 2004 presidential elections. The implications of these changes for development of democracy in Ukraine are also considered.			Post-Soviet Affairs	24		351	382									
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2010/06/01	Terrorists or National Heroes? Politics of the OUN and the UPA in Ukraine				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/257528302_Terrorists_or_National_Heroes_Politics_of_the_OUN_and_the_UPA_in_Ukraine	Terrorists or National Heroes? Politics of the OUN and the UPA in Ukraine.pdf	This study analyzes policies and public attitudes concerning the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army (UPA) after the “Orange Revolution” in Ukraine. The issue of the political rehabilitation of these nationalist organizations, which relied on terrorism and were involved in Nazi genocide and ethnic cleansing of Poles during World War Two, became one of central political issues in this post-Soviet state. The question is which factors determine attitudes towards the OUN and the UPA in contemporary Ukraine. The hypothesis is that regional factors are the main determinants of the public opinion concerning these organizations. This paper uses analysis of historical studies and archival data to examine policies and controversies concerning the OUN and the UPA. It employs comparative and regression analyses of the 2009 Kyiv International Institute of Sociology survey to determine effects of regional factors, compared to other factors, such as ethnicity, language, and age, on attitudes towards the Stepan Bandera faction of the OUN and the UPA. The paper shows that that regional factors and perceptions of the involvement of the Bandera faction of the OUN and the UPA in mass murder are strongest predictors of views concerning these nationalist organizations.																
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2010/09/02	EU and NATO Enlargement Puzzles			10.2139/ssrn.1671948	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/259564441_EU_and_NATO_Enlargement_Puzzles	EU_and_NATO_Enlargement_Puzzles.pdf	Enlargements of the European Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) present major puzzles. While many post-communist countries, such as Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Bulgaria, Bosnia, Albania, and the Baltic States were granted a membership or a prospect of membership in these organizations, a number of post-communist countries located in Europe, such as Russia, Belarus, Moldova, and Azerbaijan, were not offered prospects of membership even when they would satisfy official criteria for joining the EU and NATO. Some countries, such as Ukraine and Georgia, were officially recognized as potential members of NATO, but not the European Union. The question is, which factors account for such significant variation in the accession to the EU and NATO among European post-communist countries. Previous studies explained the exclusion of certain post-communist countries by their failure to meet such formal and informal EU membership criteria as having a liberal democracy, a European location and identity, a Western Christian religious tradition, a high level of economic development, a relatively small population size, and popular as well as government support from the EU’s prospective and most influential existing members. Similarly, NATO accession studies emphasized such criteria as democracy, peaceful resolution of internal ethnic conflicts or territorial disputes, and the ability to meet NATO military standards. This paper uses comparative and multiple regression analysis to determine which factors affect the European Union and NATO membership of 25 European post-communist countries. The EU accession index and the NATO accession index are derived from the status of each country as a member, as a candidate, as a potential candidate, and as a non-member/not a potential candidate. Such factors, as the level of democracy, the economic level of development, religion, post-Soviet region, population size, violent conflicts, and public support for EU or NATO membership, are analyzed. The study shows that the level of democracy and the economic development level have positive effects on EU accession, while being a post-Soviet country has a negative effect. Similarly, the level of democracy positively affects NATO accession, but post-Soviet states have a negative likelihood of admission into NATO when all other factors are held constant.																
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2010/12/27	Political Regionalism in "Orange" Ukraine				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/259311022_Political_Regionalism_in_Orange_Ukraine	PoliticalRegionalisminOrangeUkraine.pdf	This study analyzes changes in regional electoral behavior and foreign policy attitudes in Ukraine after “Orange Revolution.” The research question is whether the public support for major groups of political parties and presidential candidates and attitudes towards principal foreign policy issues in regions of Ukraine have changed after the “Orange Revolution.” This article employs comparative and statistical analyses of voting results of the 2007, 2006, and 2002 parliamentary elections, the 2010 local elections, and the 2004 and 2010 presidential elections, and survey data to examine effects of regional political culture, compared to other factors, on support for pro-nationalist/pro-Western and pro-Russian/pro-communist political parties and presidential candidates. This study also uses survey data to analyze changes in attitudes towards NATO, the European Union, and a union with Russia in regions of Ukraine and a change in separatist preferences in Crimea. The analysis shows that Ukraine after the “Orange Revolution” remained divided along regional lines in terms of support for political parties and presidential candidates and attitudes towards foreign orientation.																
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2011/05/30	Politics of Representation of Post-Communist Countries in American, British, and Canadian Films				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/315729430_Politics_of_Representation_of_Post-Communist_Countries_in_American_British_and_Canadian_Films	Politics_of_Representation_of_Post-CommunistCountries.pdf	The study examines the role of political factors in representation of post-communist countries in Canada, UK, and US films. Post-Soviet countries receive more negative portrayal than East Central European countries. Criminals, spies, and terrorists dominate representation of Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine. NATO members generally receive more positive representation.																
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2011/09/01	Puzzles of EU and NATO Accession of Post-Communist Countries			10.1080/15705854.2011.596308	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/254335629_Puzzles_of_EU_and_NATO_Accession_of_Post-Communist_Countries	PuzzlesofEUandNATOAccessionofPost-CommunistCountries.pdf	Accessions of post-communist countries to the European Union (EU) and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) represent puzzles. While many such countries were granted a membership or a prospect of membership in these organisations, other European post-communist countries were not offered accession or the prospect of membership in the EU and NATO. The question is which factors account for such significant variation in accession to the EU and NATO among European post-communist countries. This article uses statistical analysis to determine which factors affect the accession of 25 European post-communist states to the EU and NATO in 1997–2010. The study shows that the level of democracy is positively associated with accession to NATO and the EU. Conflicts have a negative impact on the NATO enlargement, while the level of economic development has a positive effect on EU enlargement. Being a post-Soviet country has a negative effect on both NATO and EU accession.			Perspectives on European Politics and Society	12		304	319									
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan; Morley, Alicen	2012/01/01	The Politics of U.S. Television Coverage of Post-Communist Countries			10.2753/PPC1075-8216590102	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/256373668_The_Politics_of_US_Television_Coverage_of_Post-Communist_Countries	ProblemsofPost-Communismarticle.pdf	An analysis of the coverage of post-communist countries by the major U.S. television networks from 1998 to 2009 reveals that U.S. allies receive more positive coverage than do non-allies or adversaries and that there are systematic biases in the representation of many post-Soviet countries.			Problems of Post-Communism	59												
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2012/04/19	Democracy and Political Values in Ukraine				https://www.researchgate.net/publication/260084376_Democracy_and_Political_Values_in_Ukraine	Katchanovski_Democracy_and_Political_Values_in_Ukraine.pdf	This study examines democratic orientations and their determinants in post-Orange Ukraine from the perspective of a political culture theory. The research question is, to what extent is political culture in Ukraine supportive of democracy. This paper uses data from different waves of the Pew Global Attitudes surveys, the World Values Surveys, and the International Foundation for Electoral Systems surveys to examine public views towards democracy in Ukraine. The paper compares democratic values in Ukraine with those in Poland and Russia, two similar post-communist countries with differing political cultures and divergent trajectories of democratization. It also examines changes in the levels of pro-democratic attitudes in post-Orange Ukraine compared to the Orange and pre-Orange periods. Finally, this study implements multiple regression analysis of the determinants of democratic attitudes. The analysis shows limited effects of historical democratic legacies and Catholicism on pro-democracy views. With some exceptions, adherents of major parties do not differ significantly in terms of their degree of support for democracy. This study suggests that partially democratic and partially authoritarian political culture impedes the future prospects for consolidated democracy in Ukraine.																
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2014/08/28	East or West? Regional Political Divisions in Ukraine since the "Orange Revolution" and the "Euromaidan"			10.13140/2.1.3992.1922		EastorWestRegionalPoliticalDivisionsinUkrainesinceOrangeRevolutionandEuromaidan.pdf	This paper analyzes changes in regional electoral behavior and attitudes towards separatism and foreign policy orientation in Ukraine after the “Orange Revolution” and the “Euromaidan,” which turned into a violent internal conflict and one of the biggest international conflicts involving Western countries and Russia. The research question is whether the regional divisions concerning domestic politics, separatism and foreign orientation have changed significantly in Ukraine since the “Orange Revolution” in 2004 and the “Euromaidan” in 2014. This paper employs comparative and statistical analyses of voting results of the 2012, 2007, 2006, and 2002 parliamentary elections, and the 2014, 2010, and 2004 presidential elections, to examine effects of historical legacies, ethnicity, language, age, and economic factors on regional support for pro-nationalist/pro-Western and pro-Russian/pro-communist political parties and presidential candidates. The study also analyses support for separatism in Crimea and Donbas after the “Orange Revolution” and the “Euromaidan.” It uses a brief survey, conducted for this study by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology (KIIS) in April and May 2014, to examine determinants of pro-separatist attitudes. The paper also employs Razumkov Center and KIIS surveys to analyze changes in 2002-2014 in regional preferences for joining the European Union (EU), NATO, and a union with Russia. The analysis shows that Ukraine after the “Orange Revolution” remained divided along regional lines in terms of support for political parties and presidential candidates and attitudes towards joining the EU, NATO, and a Russia-led union. After the “Euromaidan,” such divisions in foreign policy orientation and, to a lesser extent, support for presidential candidates and political parties remained. A significant rise in separatist sentiments helped to fuel separatist takeovers of power in Crimea and Donbas and Russian military intervention in these regions.																
CONF	Katchanovski, Ivan	2014/10/01	The Separatist Conflict in Donbas: A Violent Break-Up of Ukraine?	Canadian Institute of Ukrainian Studies		10.13140/RG.2.1.1572.7122	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/292608098_The_Separatist_Conflict_in_Donbas_A_Violent_Break-Up_of_Ukraine		Ukraine has experienced significant regional divisions concerning such issues as support for leading presidential candidates and political parties, foreign orientation, and attitudes towards major historical events since it became independent in 1991. Separatism in various forms manifested itself in Crimea in the first half of the 1990s and in Donbas and neighboring regions during the “Orange Revolution” in 2004. However, Ukraine was able until 2014 to avoid a violent break-up, in contrast to such post-communist countries as Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, and former Yugoslavia. In 2014, Crimea seceded with help of Russian military intervention, and it was annexed by Russia. Pro-Russian separatists with direct involvement of large groups of armed Russians with indirect Russian government support seized power in most of Donbas and engaged in a violent conflict with pro-government forces in the Donetsk and Luhansk Regions (Donbas). The research question is as to why Ukraine has suffered a violent separatist conflict in Donbas. This study analyses the role of different actors and factors in the violent conflict in Donbas. This paper uses a brief survey, which was commissioned by the author and conducted by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology (KIIS) in the end of April and the beginning of May 2014, to analyze support for separatism in Donbas, compared to other regions of Ukraine, and major factors which affect such support. It compares the role of the Yanukovych and post-Yanukovych governments in Ukraine, the Russian and Western governments, political leaders of these countries, and Russian and Ukrainian paramilitary formations. This paper also compares the violent separatist conflict in the Donetsk and Luhansk Regions to other similar violent conflicts and to secessions of Transdniestria in Moldova, Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia, Nagorno-Karabakh in Azerbaijan, Krajina in Croatia, Republika Srpska in Bosnia, and Kosovo in Serbia.	Negotiating Borders	Edmonton	European Politics and Society	17	3											
JOUR	Katchanovski, Ivan	2023/10/16	The “snipers’ massacre” on the Maidan in Ukraine			10.1080/23311886.2023.2269685		ThesnipersmassacreontheMaidaninUkrainearticle.pdf	This study analyzes which party of the conflict was involved in the 2014 Maidan massacre in Ukraine. The massacre of Maidan protesters and the police on 20 February 2014 was a turning point in Ukrainian politics. This mass killing led to the overthrow of the Ukrainian government and spiraled into a civil war in Donbas, Russian military intervention in Crimea and Donbas, the Russian annexation of Crimea, and conflicts between Ukraine and Russia and between the West and Russia that Russia drastically escalated by launching its illegal invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. This article proposes and tests the moral hazard theory of the state repression backfire. Content analysis of synchronized videos, testimonies by several hundred witnesses, confessions by 14 self-admitted members of Maidan sniper groups, and bullet hole locations show that both the police and protesters were massacred by Maidan snipers located in Maidan-controlled buildings and areas. Content analysis of synchronized videos revealed that the specific time and direction of shooting by Berkut policemen, who were charged with the massacre, did not coincide with the killing of specific protesters. Testimonies by the absolute majority of wounded protesters and some 100 witnesses and forensic examinations by ballistic and medical experts for the Maidan massacre trial and investigation in Ukraine corroborate this. The article shows that the false-flag massacre was rationally organized and carried out with the involvement of oligarchic and far-right elements of the Maidan opposition to overthrow the incumbent government in Ukraine.			Cogent Social Sciences	9	2	1	34	CC BY 4.0								
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2024/08/01	The Maidan Massacre in Ukraine: The Mass Killing that Changed the World	Palgrave Macmillan	978-3-031-67121-0	10.1007/978-3-031-67121-0	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/383610612_The_Maidan_Massacre_in_Ukraine_The_Mass_Killing_that_Changed_the_World		This open access book provides a comprehensive analysis of the Maidan massacre in Ukraine. It uses a theoretical framework of rational choice, moral hazard, state- repression backfire, and Weberian ideas about rational action to explore the massacre. The book draws on publicly available videos, photos and audio recordings of the massacre in English, Ukrainian, Russian, Polish and other languages, along with several hundred individual testimonies and revelations from the Ukrainian investigation and a trial and its verdict. By examining which parties were responsible for the massacre, the book analyses its implications for not only Russia’s war on Ukraine but also political developments across the globe.																
BOOK	Katchanovski, Ivan	2025/09/01	The Russia-Ukraine War and its Origins: From the Maidan to the Ukraine War	Palgrave Macmillan	978-3-031-98724-3	10.1007/978-3-031-98724-3	https://www.researchgate.net/publication/396694016_The_Russia-Ukraine_War_and_its_Origins_From_the_Maidan_to_the_Ukraine_War	Russia-UkraineWaranditsOriginsbook978-3-031-98724-3.pdf	This open access book examines the Russia-Ukraine war and its origins. Based on analysis of a large number of primary and secondary sources, it provides a systematic analysis of this crucial war, its nature, outcome, possibility of peaceful settlement, violence against civilians, and origins. The book examines the role of such factors as the NATO accession of Ukraine, Russian imperialism, democracy, genocide, and the far-right in the start of the war and traces the conflict escalation ladder, which culminated in this war, to preceding violent conflicts in Ukraine, in particular, the Euromaidan, the Maidan massacre, the Russian annexation of Crimea, and the war in Donbas. The Russia-Ukraine war is the most significant armed conflict of the 21st century in the entire world and in Europe since World War Two in terms of countries involved, casualties inflicted, and actual and potential impact in the world. This book analyzes the involvement of different conflict parties, such as the Ukrainian, Russian, and Western governments, Donbas separatists, and the far right, in this crucial war and in the Euromaidan, the Maidan massacre, the Russian annexation of Crimea, and the war in Donbas, and the nature of these conflicts. This book also examines support for pro-Western/pro-nationalist and pro-Russian/pro-communist political parties and presidential candidates and attitudes towards separatism and joining the European Union, NATO, and the union with Russia in regions of Ukraine in parliamentary and presidential elections and surveys since the Euromaidan.								CC BY 4.0								